README.md, before:

# Terraform Modules

This repository holds terraform modules used to install
the Bigeye stack into an AWS Environment.

## Prerequisites

### Terraform

[Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli#install-terraform)

- at least version 1.0.  We find that
`tfenv` ([link](https://github.com/tfutils/tfenv)) is a useful way to install
& manage Terraform versions

### AWS

You need the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
installed and configured with credentials for your AWS account.

## Getting Started

Check out the [standard example](./examples/standard/) to get started with
a Bigeye stack. Other common configurations are also in the examples directory.

For a full list of the configuration options, please review the
[variables.tf](./modules/bigeye/variables.tf) in the main bigeye module.

## Compatibility Matrix

Some infrastructure changes require application changes to be in place,
and some application changes require infrastructure changes. This section
of the README notes these changes.

This compatibility matrix is not exhaustive. It is added on a
best-effort basis. The terraform-modules version refers to the version
of the terraform module in this repository. The Application Version refers
to the value of the `image_tag`, specifying the application image.
It is always recommended to be on the latest
terraform version and application version.

| terraform-modules Version | Application Version | Comment                                                                                  |
|---------------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| >= 11.4.0                 | 1.71.0    | migrate queue membership to "include" list that became available in app version `1.71.0` |
| >= 9.2.0                  | 1.65.0    | mTLS support in datawatch services removed, requires TF settings introduced in `9.2.0`   |
| 9.2.0                     | >= 1.57.0 | TF adds temporal settings that were released in app version 1.57.0                       |
| >= 3.12.0                 | 1.48.0    | Application 1.48.0 requires at least terraform-modules version 3.12.0                    |

## Upgrading

### Upgrading to 1.0.0

>IMPORTANT - There are a few breaking changes in this release.

Please refer to the [changelog](./CHANGELOG.md#100-2023-12-22)
for more instructions.

Commit message:

feat!: rollout indexwork service
Catalog indexing is a CPU intensive process that is quite bursty
in nature.  As such it has been moved to a dedicated service for
resource isolation and hardware efficiency.  Note that the service
will autoscale down to 0 instances when the queue is empty.  This
is normal.

BREAKING CHANGE: The following feature flags will need to be removed
from your config if you are using them:

- indexwork_enabled
- indexwork_autoscaling_enabled

README.md, after:

# Terraform Modules

This repository holds terraform modules used to install
the Bigeye stack into an AWS Environment.

## Prerequisites

### Terraform

[Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli#install-terraform)

- at least version 1.0.  We find that
`tfenv` ([link](https://github.com/tfutils/tfenv)) is a useful way to install
& manage Terraform versions

### AWS

You need the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
installed and configured with credentials for your AWS account.

## Getting Started

Check out the [standard example](./examples/standard/) to get started with
a Bigeye stack. Other common configurations are also in the examples directory.

For a full list of the configuration options, please review the
[variables.tf](./modules/bigeye/variables.tf) in the main bigeye module.

## Compatibility Matrix

Some infrastructure changes require application changes to be in place,
and some application changes require infrastructure changes. This section
of the README notes these changes.

This compatibility matrix is not exhaustive. It is added on a
best-effort basis. The terraform-modules version refers to the version
of the terraform module in this repository. The Application Version refers
to the value of the `image_tag`, specifying the application image.
It is always recommended to be on the latest
terraform version and application version.

| terraform-modules Version | Application Version | Comment                                                                                  |
|---------------------------|---------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| >= 12.0.0                 | 1.73.0              | dedicated indexwork service for catalog indexing operations                              |
| >= 11.4.0                 | 1.71.0              | migrate queue membership to "include" list that became available in app version `1.71.0` |
| >= 9.2.0                  | 1.65.0              | mTLS support in datawatch services removed, requires TF settings introduced in `9.2.0`   |
| 9.2.0                     | >= 1.57.0           | TF adds temporal settings that were released in app version 1.57.0                       |
| >= 3.12.0                 | 1.48.0              | Application 1.48.0 requires at least terraform-modules version 3.12.0                    |

## Upgrading

### Upgrading to 12.0.0

The following feature flags will need to be removed from your config if you
are using them:

- indexwork_enabled
- indexwork_autoscaling_enabled

### Upgrading to 10.0.0

All variables with papi in the name need to be globally replaced with internalapi.

### Upgrading to 1.0.0

>IMPORTANT - There are a few breaking changes in this release.

Please refer to the [changelog](./CHANGELOG.md#100-2023-12-22)
for more instructions.
